I am here to talk about a day that is coming in our near future that is going to come one way or the other, but we got to make sure it comes sooner rather than later. And that is the first day that the sun comes up over Iowa and Donald Trump is no longer the president of the United States.
Are we ready for that day? Ready to put the chaos behind us? Ready to put the meanness behind us? Are we ready to put the tweets in the rearview mirror once and for all? Me too.
You know, I am meeting an awful lot of folks from around the country and certainly around the state of Iowa who can not  wait to bring that day about. Fellow Democrats, independents, and an awful lot of what I like to call future former Republicans, who are equally eager to make sure that we change what’s going on in this White House, and they are welcome to be part of this effort.
But here’s the thing. If you really picture that day, if you form that image in your mind and visualize what it would be like, It is  a reminder that that is not the day that our work is done. That is the day that our work begins. Because on that day, we are  going to  need the president more than ever. we are  going to  need the White House and the right values to be in the White House more than ever.
Think about it. The sun’s coming up that day over a country that’ll be even more divided than we are today, even more torn up over politics, even more exhausted from fighting than we are right now.
That means we are  going to  need a president capable of unifying the American people, and determined to use the powers of the office to help do that. And at the same time, something else will be true, which is what our country will be up against. The issues that have brought us to this point will be as urgent as ever. They’re not going to take a break during the impeachment process or during the election process.
The sun’s going to  be coming up in a climate that is this close to the point of no return, and that is  going to  be crying out for action. The sun will be coming up over an economy where one job is not enough, no matter how good the stock market is looking. that is  going to  be crying out for action. The sun’s going to  be coming up over schools where kids are learning active shooter drills before they’re old enough to learn how to read.
So we are  going to  need a president who is capable of dealing with those kinds of issues, rising to meet them with urgent, bold action, and do it in a way that is  actually going to have us more unified, ready to galvanize and not polarize an American majority that insists on that kind of action. And that is  why we have a presidency.
So the reason that I am asking you to caucus for me three weeks from tomorrow is because I believe the presidency has a purpose. And the purpose is the presidency is not the glorification of the president; it is the unification and empowerment of the American people to do big things, and come together as we get it done. that is  why I am running for president. that is  why I need your help.
I am running to be the president who can open up the road map to getting these things done, where the guideposts are the American values that we share, values that do not belong to one party but could lead us in a progressive direction if we pay attention to what those values require.
A lot of those values I’ve been thinking about, and I think we all have the last couple of weeks, have to do with love of country, patriotism, security, honoring service, honoring troops and doing it in a way that is  actually true to our deepest values. But there’s a lot more to that than the chest-thumping militarism of a president who thinks throwing himself a military parade or pardoning war criminals makes you pro-America.
If we are  serious about honoring our troops, let’s honor them by making sure they are never sent to sacrifice in a conflict that could’ve been avoided. that is  part of patriotism and national security too.
If we are  serious about honoring that flag, then let’s remember that part of what it stands for is a country known to keep its word, that our lives depend on our allies and our adversaries knowing that we are  a country that keeps its word. And when I am your commander-in-chief, no one will ever question whether it is a good bet to bet your life on the credibility of the United States of America. That is a matter of security.
If we are  serious about protecting this country, that means protecting each other. A love of country that begins with the understanding that our country consists of people. And you cannot love a country if you hate half of the people in it. I am for a richer sense of what it means to love our country.
Let’s talk about what we are  up against as a country. Because these problems are real. The problems that we have faced in our community are real. The problems that we face in this country are real. And we can not  wave them away. We can not  pretend they’re not real, and we can not  pretend that we are  going to get over them without painful conversations the way we do in a family. But I believe this is a family, and we owe one another the love and respect that family members pay, especially when we are  in pain, especially when we do not see things the same way.
It is  the kind of country that we are. It is  the kind of country that we seek to be, and we need to remember that what is on the line now is the ability for us to deal with these issues. It is  not going to  happen overnight, but It is  also not going to  happen if we can not  all look one another in the eye and speak truth, and if we cannot hear one another, and hear one another speak.
You will never see me saying I alone can fix it the way this president did, because that is  not true. And you will never see me describing a political opponent or a volunteer for a political opponent as the enemy of the people just because they do not see things the same way.
Think about what our country is up against. This isn’t just a question of what’s happening overseas; this is a question of what’s happening right here at home. National security starts at home. that is  why we gotta do something about the epidemic of gun violence. If we mean business when it comes to protecting each other, that starts with making sure the Second Amendment can no longer be turned into an excuse to do nothing at all when it comes to gun violence.
If we are serious about protecting our country, we gotta protect our country’s future, and that means rising to meet the challenge of climate change as the global security threat of our time and leading the world to doing something about it.
Let’s look at the values that they are using to try to tell people they do not belong, and think about what it means to actually take them seriously. Faith right now, religion, is being used to tell some people they do not belong, people who have treated differently according to their religion.
Some people are even being told that being religious requires you to be part of a certain political party. Let’s send the message once and for all that God does not belong to a political party in the United States of America.
When I think about the values of multiple religious traditions, I am thinking about all of the teaching that says that we are to treat one another the way we would want to be treated. I am looking at the news right now and thinking, “What ever happened to, ‘I was hungry and you fed me’?”
Well, look at Texas saying that they’re not going to  take refugees anymore, and I have to think about, “I was a stranger and you did not welcome me.” Surely, we can do better, no matter what faith tradition, if any, you belong to.
And we can offer those who are guided by religious values a choice, even while upholding the bedrock principle of the American Constitution that this country belongs to people of every religion and of no religion equally.
These are the values that could light the way. Democracy as a value, not just as a system. But what does democracy really require of us? Are we a democracy if dollars can outvote people? I think we can do better than Citizens United, even if that means a constitutional amendment to clear that up and defend our democracy.
How about a democracy where voters choose politicians instead of districts run by politicians picking out their voters. How about we reform that and become more of a democracy?
Some folks say I am far out on this, but I do not need to go so far as to argue that in a democracy, one day we should start choosing our nation’s leader by just counting up all the votes and giving it to the person who got the most, like we would in every other election in this country. Let’s let the value of democracy lead the way.
These are the values that could show the way forward. I am thinking in particular about the value of freedom, American freedom. This is not as simple as cutting every regulation and every tax and every government program that is  out there. that is  not enough to make us free. I am not interested in preserving Amazon’s freedom to pay zero dollars in federal income taxes next year. I am pretty sure they’re going to  be fine, even when they pay their fair share.
I am talking about the freedom to live a life of our choosing. Sometimes, that does mean getting government out of the way. I am a big fan of keeping government, for example, out of the business of telling you who you ought to marry. that is  part of my freedom.
Let’s make sure we are  keeping government out of the business of dictating to women what their reproductive health choices ought to be.
In order to be more free, we need the public sector to step up. that is  why we have cities. that is  why mayors exist, cause you are not free if you can not  get access to clean, safe drinking water, or a road that gets you where you are going that is  paved and plowed. I didn’t get this many nods when I talked about snow plowing in Las Vegas. It is  not as relevant for them out there, but you know what I am talking about.
If you can not  get to where you are going, you are not free. that is  what we expect of local government. And It is  why we expect our school systems to educate our children, because freedom comes by way of education. And how about we back them up with a secretary of education in Washington who believes in public education and supports our teachers. I am pretty sure that is  an American value most of us can get on board with.
And yes, the time that has come to make sure the public sector steps up to deliver answers on health care, cause you are not free if you do not have it. that is  why we need to offer Medicare for all who want it, while preserving your freedom to decide whether you want it, because I think you are going to  make the right choice for yourself and for your family.
These are the values that could light the way forward, and this can not  wait. This is not something that can wait for 10 years. It is  not something that can wait for four years. We’ve got to act now. We can not  wait to do something about the climate, because if the scientific deadline is 2030, that means the political deadline is 2020. So we are  going to  need a president who actually believes in climate science now in order to hit any of those goals by 2030. It can not  wait.
We can not  wait to act toward becoming a society where your race has no bearing on your health, or your wealth, or your life expectancy, or your relationship with law enforcement. that is  a nationally urgent priority we’ve gotta act right now to do something about.
And with millions of lives on the line in the rise of deaths from despair, we can not  wait to take the very same energy and openness that we bring to talking about and dealing with physical medical issues, and finally do the same for mental health and addiction. We could save a million lives over the next decade if we cut deaths from despair in half. It is  not right.
Nor in my view can our country wait to do something about the crisis of belonging that we are experiencing in different ways, reaching people in different forms, but telling so many people because of where you are in the economy, because of your race or your religion, or who you love, what language you speak at home, people are getting told they do not belong.
The time has come for us to send a message that the only thing that our great country doesn’t have room for is hatred and exclusion. This is our chance.
And now I have something to ask of you. First of all, the obvious: I am really hoping that you will be willing to caucus for me three weeks from tomorrow.
But also, if what we are  trying to do speaks to you, if you see how this country can get better and quickly if we do the right thing, if we have this vision carry the day, then we could also really use your help.
I am asking you to reach out to people in your life who may be this close to switching the whole thing off. Because when you watch the news, It is  exhausting. Right? I mean, watching this impeachment thing, figuring it will go to the Senate, it might be a foregone conclusion before it even arrives, It is  just one more moment that I think is designed to beat the hope out of us and beat the joy out of us.
But the moment we give up hope is the moment that cynics win and nothing is more powerful than somebody in your life reaching out to you and letting you know why they’re involved. So if you are involved enough to be here, in other words, if you have enough hope to have propelled you on this snowy night into spending some time with us talking about how our country could be better, then that means you also have the power to spread it.
It is  one thing for somebody to see a commercial for me, It is  another for them to hear from you your story of what brought you through these doors. And we have an organization that is ready and eager to engage you in that work.
Let me ask our precinct leaders and our organizers to just give a wave, so you can see around the room who our precinct leaders and organizers are.
they have  got the buttons, they have  got the shirts, thank you for your help. They would be delighted to talk with you, even if you’ve never been anywhere near the caucus process or if you are a veteran of this process, they would be delighted to engage you in how to make sure that we are  building the strongest possible organization to reach out and invite others to be part of this.
This is our chance. This is where we say no to the hopelessness and helplessness and the exhaustion and take it into our own hands. that is  what 2020 is. Our chance to take control and it begins, Iowa, with you three weeks from tomorrow.
So are you ready to start that sense of hope? Are you ready to bring about that sunrise that I was talking about where we can put the Trump administration behind us and build a better day? Are you ready to make history together, Iowa? Iowa, I believe you are going to make me the nominee and the next president of the United States and I will work every day to make you proud if you do. Thank you for being here!

